I'm Jacqueline Nolis.
This is my presentation how one time I made an entire e-commerce platform on Shiny.
They said it couldn't be done, but I did it.
What is that platform?
That platform is ggirl, which is to make your ggplots in real life.
Some people may pronounce it ggirl, but it is officially ggirl.
You can install it via remotes, and it lets you take a ggplot you've made that's beautiful
that you wish existed in the physical realm.
You can then pay a modest fee, and very soon you will get an actual postcard delivered
to a friend or family member.
But it's all cool to talk about it.
Let's actually see how it works instead.
So I'm going to immediately switch out of PowerPoint and switch to a live demo.
So I'm running this in Saturn Cloud.
I'm just going to open up RStudio.
And so let's say you have a plot you like.
Let's say you have this souvenir commemorative RStudio ‑‑ oh, no.
I think we're also ‑‑ yeah, we're missing it.
Is it not showing up?
Wait.
Here.
Can I do this?
Yeah.
Cool.
Good.
That would have been tragic.
This is the best part.
Here we go.
Let's see if I can do this from over here.
Yes.
Okay.
So you have this souvenir commemorative GGIRL plot.
Oh, God.
I'm going to have to do it like this.
Oh, no.
I see it.
We're good.
Okay.
So you have this souvenir commemorative GGIRL plot.
You can then go and you can use this GG postcard function, which takes a plot, the contact
email for the order confirmation, the message you want to put on the back of the postcard,
like this is a great conference, thanks for putting it on, and the address of a friend
or family member.
In this case, I'm going to send it to our friends at RStudio, I mean Posit, in Boston,
Massachusetts.
And in a couple of weeks, their headquarters is going to be confused why they got a postcard.
But here we are.
So I'm going to hit that, and what's going to happen is it's going to think for a second,
and then it's going to launch an entirely separate Shiny server.
This is a Shiny server running somewhere else.
It is not running on my computer.
It is running actually on Saturn Cloud.
So on the front, you can see the preview of the postcard.
It shows you the message.
It shows you the address.
It has one button, and that's pay and submit.
When you hit pay and submit, oh, God, this is so hard.
There we go.
Okay.
So when you hit pay and submit, it thinks for a second and sends you to Stripe.
In Stripe, it asks you for money.
So I'm going to go ahead and put in my credit card information.
Just kidding, cyber stalkers.
So you do that, and then if you did somehow put in your credit card information in front
of a bunch of people, you would then very soon get an email confirming that you made
the order.
In one to two weeks, you will get a physical postcard of your Gigi plot.
That's right.
That's the presentation you've seen with physical props.
Your message is on the back.
It's got the Gigi sticker.
Oh, I think I just doxed myself on my address.
Cool.
Okay.
So now we're back to PowerPoint.
Let's see if I can pop this back up.
You got it?
Okay.
Great.
Cool.
So that was the demo.
As you saw, it went from R to a shiny app to Stripe, and then somehow a postcard appeared.
But how does it work?
How does it work?
There we go.
Okay.
So there's an R package called Gigi IRL.
That's what you install on your computer and talks to Shiny server.
And then there's a Shiny server called Gigi IRL server, which does all the work of showing
the user preview, passing the information to Stripe, fulfilling the postcard via an
API, so there's a service somewhere I call to make the postcard go, and then sends a
confirmation email.
Now, if you think about it, Gigi IRL server should be multiple Shiny apps and plumber
APIs.
There's no reason why the fulfillment, why the uploading the information should be done
via Shiny.
It's probably better to do that as an API via plumber.
But for ease of maintenance, I'm like, I really just want one Shiny app to do all of this.
And by ease of maintenance, I mean I'm super lazy, and I don't want to have to keep a bunch
of microservices running.
I just want one.
But to make this work leads a lot of engineering questions, which I'm going to enumerate now.
One is how do you pass the plot from R to Shiny?
If you think about it, Shiny, there's a lot of times where Shiny has data loaded into
it, right?
You can read data from a database in Shiny.
You can press the upload button on Shiny.
But if you think about it, there's not really an obvious way that if a Shiny server is running,
how can you programmatically send data to it?
So I don't want it to read data on load.
I want to just pass the data to a server that's running.
It may not even have a web page open.
I just want it to listen for data.
So the way you would do that in, like, web development land is you do an HTTP post request.
So an HTTP post request is a way an API or a website receives data.
So when you hit submit on a website, your browser is doing a post request to the server.
That should be done with a post request.
Shiny does not have a documented ability to listen for post requests.
Normally only Plumber does that.
It should have this.
And that's my call out to RStudio.
I mean, pause it.
I think that would be a really great feature.
The good news is there's actually a number of undocumented ways to do this.
And so, again, what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to post the image to Shiny.
So here's the plot I've made.
And then I want Shiny to come back to me with, okay, here's the ID of that image.
I'm like, cool, I got the image.
I'm going to call it FC whatever.
And then the package is going to be like, okay, cool.
I'm then going to take the user to the browser website to actually do the preview.
So this is a back and forth of the post request.
So there are a number of undocumented ways to do this.
The way I like the most is you use the brochure package by Colin Fay.
This is an experimental package that lets you connect multiple Shiny apps together.
So if you have like three different Shiny apps and you're like, man,
I really wish all of them were running at once,
you can bundle them all up into one Shiny app using brochure.
You can also listen to requests besides get.
So if you want to have your Shiny app listen for data, not just show webpages,
brochure will let you do that too.
So this actually solves two of my problems.
One, it lets me listen for post data.
And two, I can actually have a bunch of concurrent Shiny apps,
one for the order upload, one for the fulfillment, one for the preview.
It's so new, it doesn't even have a hex sticker.
It also says all over it, experimental, do not use in production.
But here I am using in production and it's working great.
Thanks, Colin.
If you want to see examples of the other ways that are actually built
into Shiny to do post request, I have a link at the bottom and you can check it out.
Cool.
So how do you show the image preview?
So once we have the data uploaded into Shiny, how do we show the image?
Well, this is actually just a Shiny app with one button.
What I do is I have the URL you go to, have the token,
which is the ID of the particular postcard you uploaded.
I have that in the URL and then the Shiny app shows a different postcard
depending on what your token is.
Now, I put a lot of work into the bootstrap and the CSS to make it all look pretty
and to get the margins on the postcard right and all that.
I have a whole separate talk about making your Shiny apps look pretty
that I gave at ShinyConf 2022.
So if you want like 45 minutes of hearing about how to make your Shiny apps look pretty,
I suggest you check out that talk.
It was a lot of fun.
So, okay, cool.
So we have a Shiny app.
It shows you the preview of the thing.
It got the data from a post request from R.
But how do we then pass the user from Shiny to Stripe, right?
How do I make that pay and submit button send someone to Stripe?
I thought this would be the hardest part of the app,
but it actually was surprisingly easy to make this.
There are really just two steps in the payment flow.
First is you need Shiny to send Stripe what is actually in the shopping cart of the user,
which is called the Stripe session.
You do this via a post request.
By the way, it turns out GGIRL, it's like 95% just post requests bouncing around,
and this is another one.
It's not the last.
You then also, once you've posted the cart,
you then have to have the user go to the Shiny page or the Stripe page.
So Stripe has a JavaScript API to get users to the appropriate Stripe checkout page.
I refuse to learn JavaScript.
I will never do this.
The good...
Yeah, I'm not alone here.
Great.
The good news is that Shiny makes it very easy, I found out,
to use other people's JavaScript APIs.
So what you do is you add tags, $script to the top of your Shiny app
to load in the JavaScript API,
and then you Shiny.customMessageHandler
so that when the action button is pressed for pay and submit,
it will call that special JavaScript.
So it's really just two steps.
And again, if you want to see the particular code,
you can go to that GGIRL examples repo,
and you can see an example there.
So this gets the user from Shiny to Stripe,
where they presumably pay money because they are excited about a postcard.
How do you then fulfill the order?
So how do you have Shiny then listen for Stripe,
Stripe being like, okay, cool, they paid you money.
Now we're going to go ahead and make the order.
So we do this with a POST request.
So we're going to have Stripe send a POST request
telling Shiny to order the postcards.
So if your server is listening for someone else's POST request,
that is called a webhook.
It's just a different name for another POST request.
It's just kind of going in the other direction.
So we're going to use a webhook saying, hey, order XYZ or FCE6,
whatever the order number is, has been paid for.
And to make sure that people just don't know what that URL is
and spam it to get a million postcards,
we are going to add keys to ensure that the message
actually came from Stripe itself.
So Stripe will then, so Shiny will receive the request
and be like, okay, cool, the order is placed.
And then Shiny will call the stuff to send the postcard and send the email.
So, and this feels like it should be straightforward, right?
I've already done two or three POST requests as part of this talk.
This is just another POST request.
But here's the issue,
is that Stripe needs to know that the message was received really quickly.
So if Stripe says the order was confirmed,
and Stripe doesn't hear right away that the order actually,
like, you're Apgil, like, cool, we got the order,
she'll be like, oh my god, they didn't hear it.
I got to send it again.
And here's the thing you might know about Shiny,
is Shiny takes a while when it's running stuff.
So if you're not, ah, you guys are putting it together.
Yes, this took me a while, too long to put together.
But if you're not careful,
Stripe will ask for the order to be submitted over and over,
and Shiny will be like, cool, got it, cool, got it, cool, got it.
And the next thing you know, you have 20 POST cards sent to your house.
So the trick to solve this is you're going to use Caller package.
And Caller's a really cool package to run our processes in the background.
So when you get the order from Stripe,
you're going to use Caller to send,
like, actually send the POST card, send the email.
That's all going to happen in the background,
so that Shiny can immediately respond to Stripe being like,
yeah, cool, we got it, and not be bogged down
by the time it takes to submit the POST card order and send the email.
I love using Caller so much from learning this
that I actually made a whole talk about using R in parallel,
which is a separate thing.
If you want to learn about that, I have a separate talk for this.
And if you actually want to just see the code that does this,
again, ggirlexamples has that.
So to actually fulfill the order,
I needed to use Caller to run R in the background.
And then to order the POST cards,
it turns out there are, like, tons of companies out there
that will make APIs that if you hit that API with a POST request,
with the message, the address, and the front of the POST card,
they will ship it to that location.
This makes sense because you get lots of POST cards in the mail for advertisements.
So lots of companies use these services.
Two problems here.
One, it takes a while to ship POST cards, right?
It takes, like, two weeks to ship POST cards.
So it takes a while before you actually get the POST card back.
And two, companies that are sending millions of POST cards
to every person in the country
don't care really how good the POST cards look,
as long as they're cheap.
So it took forever for me to find a service that was actually good.
And so it took two weeks, and I didn't like it.
And two weeks, and I didn't like it.
And in fact, if you see over there,
if you see in this image on the presentation,
it looks kind of blurry.
It looks kind of like JPEG artifacts.
Like, this was like a Facebook meme that got sent to you too many times.
That was not this picture I uploaded.
That's what it actually looked like on the POST card.
And that is beneath the dignity of ggplot2plots.
So I had to spend a while.
By far, this is the longest part
because I had to spend a while until I find a printing service
that was actually good.
To send the confirmation emails, this is actually pretty easy.
There's a package Blastula, which can send those emails.
So all I had to do to put the preview in the email
is I wanted to resize it
because those images had to be very large for the printer,
and I wanted to resize them so they weren't like five megs in your inbox.
So I used the package ImageMagick to resize them
and get the right margins and everything.
But sometimes there would be an error in the fulfillment.
So not only did I have to send an email to the users,
but if anything ever goes wrong, I wanted to make sure I caught it,
so I'd have to send an email to me.
And once in a while, the email system would have an error in emailing,
so I had to email about that too.
It was a real web of emails being sent.
So lastly, how do you actually deploy it?
So I needed the server to actually be...
That ggirl server, the Shiny app, had to be continuously living somewhere.
So the place it is currently running is on Saturn Cloud.
So Saturn Cloud, I'm the chief product officer of the company.
And so it was really nice for this... I know, it's a...
I'm advertising.
So it was actually very nice because I had two RStudio servers
running in Saturn Cloud in the cloud.
So one was the one I actually was showing you,
which is how I did the development of the Shiny package in RStudio in a browser.
But I also had a RStudio running for developing the Shiny backend.
And I actually had two Shiny servers running on Saturn Cloud.
One, the actual server, the Shiny server you saw, the production one,
but as well as a development one that I could test with
and use like fake credit cards and it would fake send emails.
So I ended up having four systems all running on Saturn Cloud,
which is pretty nice and easy.
And most importantly, I beta tested this with a bunch of people
to make sure it worked first.
And that took a while and helped me really iron out some usability issues.
And that was really nice as well.
So wrapping it all up.
ggirl is a cool package for ordering cool stuff.
This required me to do a bunch of things that I assumed might be true in Shiny,
but I didn't actually know, and it turns out it is,
which includes receiving data from an R package,
listening for post requests, sending and receiving Stripe API calls,
and spawning background processes that didn't slow down
the Shiny responsiveness.
I forgot to mention at the beginning that not only can you send GG postcards,
but you can also order art prints for your walls,
which people have used for graduation presents and stuff,
which is really cool.
And people use, oh, by the way, people use GG postcards
for baby announcements and stuff.
People get really clever uses for these, so it's a lot of fun.
And there's GG watercolor, which is just,
I hand-paint a watercolor for you if you want it.
So you can install the package with the ggnolist, ggirl...
That's not me.
ggnolist, ggirl.
You can actually, if you want to make one of your own souvenir commemorative
postcards, the code's linked above.
The examples of the code in practice from the production server
are at the ggirl examples.
And if you want to see the slides, that's the link.
But lastly, I have a whole bunch of coupons for 80% off,
which means you can get a postcard sent for $0.50,
which is the cheapest Stripe will allow me to do before saying I can't do that.
So if you come talk to me after, I have so many of these coupons to give out
because I'm really excited for people to use this.
So, okay, thank you.